Now that we've talked about
so many different aspects
of streams, talked
about splitting phase,
the applying phase,
the combining phase,
internal/external
iterators, and so on,
and so forth, we're now going to
go ahead and wrap everything up
with a very large example
called the Java sequential
SearchStreamGang.
And we'll start out by
talking about the design
of this program.
This program is actually
used throughout other parts
of the course as well.
So it's worthwhile
taking a little time
now to get to know what it
does, and why it's cool.
This example, as we will
surely see, is, in many ways,
a lot more interesting than the
simple search stream program
that we've looked at before.
So the SearchStreamGang
program is actually
a revision of some earlier work
I've done, which you can also
get from my GitHub
account, called
the SearchTaskGang program.
And what this
SearchStreamGang program
does that the earlier
SearchTaskGame
program didn't do is it
uses functional programming
and streams--
and other stuff
later, we'll see--
instead of using
more traditional
object-oriented programming.
The SearchTaskGang
program is designed
to showcase the Java executor
framework, which we've
covered in other
courses, for tasks that
are embarrassingly parallel.
And as you may recover--
as you may recall, the
Java executor framework
is based on interfaces like
Executor, ExecutorService,
ExecutorCompletionService,
and various implementations
of those interfaces, such
as the ThreadPoolExecutor,
and of course, the ForkJoinPool.
which we will talk about later
in this course.
So this particular program,
the SearchStreamGang program
is very much more powerful than
SimpleSearchStream in a variety
of interesting ways.
One of the ways in
which it's more powerful
is it uses regular
expressions to find phrases
in the works of
William Shakespeare.
So once again, we have
our good friend, the Bard,
who is providing
us with the input.
And you can actually go to
this link at the MIT website
and download all the
works of Shakespeare.
Or, you can just get my
program, which includes it
as one of the resources.
What we do here is we
can look for phrases.
One of the things you
discover with Shakespeare
is lots of things that people
say that sound like cliches
today were actually created by
Shakespeare many, many years
ago-- hundreds of
years ago, in fact.
So let's say, that we had the
complete works of Shakespeare
and we wanted to find out
where the phrase, "Brevity is
the soul of wit," comes from.
We could use this program to
figure out where it occurred,
what play and what line
number, or what character
index in the play it occurred.
And as we'll see, a phrase can
match anywhere within a line.
And we can also-- because we're
using regular expressions--
we can also have phrases that
split across multiple lines.
So another classic phrase
from Romeo and Juliet
is, "What's in a name?
That which we call a
rose by any other name
would smell as sweet."
And that ends up
matching multiple lines,
and so we can actually
use this program
to do that too, because regular
expressions are very powerful.
The other cool thing that
the SearchStreamGang program
does that we didn't even
attempt with the SearchTaskGang
or the SimpleSearchStream
program
is it defines a
framework for performing
apples-to-apples comparisons
between different parallelism
strategies in Java.
So we're going to
use this to compare
parallel streams, parallel
spliterator, CompletableFuture,
ForkJoinPool, all
of those things
are embodied in
the implementation.
Now we're going
to focus primarily
on sequential streams,
parallel streams,
and a parallel spliterator
implementation.
And we'll use other examples
to talk about ForkJoinPool
and CompletableFuture.
But if you really
want to see these kind
of apples-to-apples
comparisons, you
can take a look at
the source code.
It's all there.
The other thing
that we do here is
we can perform
performance comparisons,
see which of these
different strategies
work better on the same
hardware platform, the same Java
development environment.
And as you'll see, as we
go through this example
and look at different
variants of it
throughout the next few
weeks, the differences
in performance by the different
implementation strategies
and different
parallelism approaches
is really quite informative.
And you'll see, as
usual, the more time you
put into thinking about how to
paralyze things effectively,
typically, the
better the speed up
is that you'll get as a result.
We're going to cover the
parallel strategies later.
But first, we're going to cover
the sequential streams now,
just so you have a
baseline to compare with.
One of the things you'll
also see that's really cool
is that we only need minuscule
changes to transition
from the sequential
streams version we're
going to look at now, to one of
the parallel streams versions.
We just basically change
a couple methods and boom,
away we go.
So that's very, very cool, very,
very effective and a good use
of human productivity time.
We're going to be able to
be very productive to get
a big speed up very quickly.
So let's start by talking
about the couple of methods
where we're going to be applying
streams in this program.
So we're going to be applying
a bunch of aggregate operations
to the process stream and
process input methods which
are defined in a class called
SearchWithSequentialStreams.
And as the name implies,
this is a sequential stream
implementation.
These are the methods we're
going to be looking at.
You can find the source
code here on my website.
And we're going to focus
primarily on using map,
filter, and collect.
These are things
you've seen before,
and so mostly, what
we're showing here
is just how easy it is
to do this, and also
kind of illustrating
how you can stack things
together and interpose
them and integrate them
in various cool ways.
The processStream method
is kind of the main entry
point into the
SearchWithSequentialStreams
class.
And it uses a sequential stream
to search a list of input
strings in a single thread.
And each of the
input strings will
contain a work of Shakespeare.
So one string will have
the text for Hamlet.
One string will have
the text for Macbeth.
One string will have the
text for Romeo and Juliet
or Caesar or whatnot.
And what we get, as a result of
this particular processStream
method, is a list of
lists of search results.
And I'll talk later
about why we do this.
There's also another
method, which
is actually called
by processStream
called processInput.
And this method uses
a sequential stream
to search a given input
string, like Hamlet or Macbeth,
to locate all the occurrences
of phrases in one thread.
And of course, it's
the same thread
that processStream is
using, because we're using
a single-threaded solution.
This particular method returns
a list of search results.